=head1 NAME

Magena::Utilities - Set of utilities for Magena project

=head1 SYNOPSIS

    use Magena::Utilities;

    # split Blast results file into more files
    Magena::Utilities->split_blast_results (
        input_file => 'my.blast.results.bls',
        max        => 5,
        output_dir => '/tmp/split',
    );

    # Or, use for it the provided script "magena":

    [scripts/]magena -h
    [scripts/]magena ...

=head1 DESCRIPTION

This module is a part of the L<Magena> project ("MAnual GENome
Annotation tool").

It provides several various utilities. All its methods are class
methods; call them this way:

    Magena::Utilities->method-name

=head1 METHODS

=head2 split_blast_results

A file with Blast results may contain results for more query
sequences. This method splits the file into smaller chunks, each of
them with a given maximum number of results. The output files are all
created in a given directory.

    use Magena::Utilities;
    Magena::Utilities->split_blast_results (@parameters);

The parameters are name-value pairs. The following names are recognized:

=over

=item I<input_file>

The only mandatory parameter, specifying input file name with the
Blast results.

=item I<output_dir>

A directory name where the split files will be created. Default name
is created from the C<input_file> parameter by adding a suffix
".parts". Created file names will have the same names as the
C<input_file> and a five-digit long order number, situated just in
front of the C<input_file>'s suffix, or at the end (if the suffix does
not exist). For example:

    Magena::Utilities->split_blast_results (
        input_file => /data/blast/results.bls,
        output_dir => /tmp/split
    );

creates files:

    /tmp/split/results.00001.bls
    /tmp/split/results.00002.bls
    /tmp/split/results.00003.bls
    ...

and

    Magena::Utilities->split_blast_results (
        input_file => /data/blast/results,
        output_dir => /tmp/split
    );

creates files:

    /tmp/split/results.00001
    /tmp/split/results.00002
    /tmp/split/results.00003
    ...

=item I<max>

A maximum number of result in one split file. Default value is
10. Must be a positive integer.

=back

Separating Blast results is done using the same regular expression as
used in BioPerl module C<Bio::SearchIO::blast> - but the BioPerl
itself is not used here (even though it is used in other Magena
modules).

=head1 ADDITIONAL FILES

Some utilities (methods) of this module are also available from a
command-line controlled scripts F<magena>. Try, for example:

    magena -h
    magena ...

=head1 SEE ALSO

All other project details (such as DEPENDENCIES, AUTHORS, BUGS,
SUPPORT, ACKNOWLEDGMENTS) are in the main documentation L<Magena>.

=head1 COPYRIGHT

Copyright (c) 2010, Martin Senger, KAUST (King Abdullah University of
Science and Technology)
All Rights Reserved.

This module is free software; you can redistribute it and/or modify
it under the same terms as Perl itself.

See F<http://www.perl.com/perl/misc/Artistic.html>

=head1 DISCLAIMER

This software is provided "as is" without warranty of any kind.

=cut
